The issue of employing the use of electric cars as replacement of the existent cars has been controversial. It is often argued that the use of vehicles fueled with fossil should be prohibited, 
to allow  those that use electricity to operate. I totally disagree with this argument due to the high cost associated with electric cars and the reduction in employment rates.

First off, the expensive nature of these electric cars coupled with high maintenance cost makes it very bad a choice as an alternative for petrol cars. Fossil fuel vehicles, 
on the other hand, are cheaper to operate due to the ready availability of petroleum products. These cars powered by electricity require sophisticated machinery to maintain them even when made. 
Also, their production cost will put a strain on the economy of the country. If such vehicles are to be imported into a country, it will cause the nation to lose huge sums of money, 
ones that could have been invested in other sectors of the economy. A recent documentary played on BBC revealed that it will cost the USA about 30 million dollars to begin importing Tesla cars, 
which are electricity powered, owned by the famous Elon Musk.

Another significant reason for calling for the maintenance of petrol vehicles is the loss of jobs associated with the replacement if done. There have been a number of fossil fuel sellers that have sprung up over the years, 
with fuel stations all across the country, creating employment to the populace. The introduction of electric vehicles, which does not require lots of man power, will cut down on personnel needed at these stations. 
In the long run, a significant number of people will be rendered unemployed, thus increasing the standard of living in the country. 
A growing body of research in Canada has it that the human resource needed in the operation of electric cars at power stations would be 30 % short off those at petroleum fuel stations.

The call to gradually get electric cars to take up the place of petrol cars have been loud, but I still believe it is not a laudable one due to its high cost and reduction in employment. 
Therefore, I do not agree with electric cars replacing fossil fuel ones upon banning them.