Nowadays, the media play a fundamental role in order to provide information and keep updated the population. 
Someone argues that specific information about people's private life should be kept private while others say that newspapers have to provide content about people's privacy.

Personally, I strongly agree with the former opinion and in this ,essay I will explain and discuss the reasons.

On one hand, in a society with full access to the internet and social media, privacy has gained more importance than in the past. Today our private life is to maintain reserved. 
Gossip has become very popular among individuals and everyone is looking for something new to talk about such as scandal or scandal. 
When journals report a piece of news, they should respect the privacy of the subject of the article, like address, family and kids, this is due to the fact that the scoop can ruin people's existence or expose them to pressure.

For instance, some months ago in my town, a local gazette spread the scandal about a teacher and the abuse of his pupils at school. 
As expected, this story destroyed the woman's life, and after the check of the police, it  inresulted a fake report, but his reputation was already ruined.

On the other hand, in order to provide accountable news, the media should provide detailed data.

Specific information can let the reader understand completely the story, knowing every detail.

A lot of experts suggest to young journalists  give more data as possible, so people can imagine the perfect scenario in their mind while they are reading the article. 
An example, could be the section in the journal that talks about criminals: in that specific situation the writer has the right to provide all the facts that emerged from the investigations.

To conclude, individual privacy is one of the most valuable things today and the mass medias have to respect it in  most  situations. 
Before publishing a new article, the writer should ask himself if providing specific details about a person could ruin his life.