In order to use public transportation as a compulsory means for travel, ban personal vehicles is considered as the best choice for government. 
Although this measure may work well for this purpose, some problems are triggered by this method is inevitable. 
Public transportation which leads to a better environment is just created by the unanimity of the whole society. To get the consensus of every individual in the society, the regulation for the public transportation using is necessary. 
Therefore, the ban of personal transports: private cars or private moto bikes is the reasonable method which orients people to use public transports also reduces the gas emission. 
Additionally, because of the reduction in gas release, the environment receives a better air condition. Ultimately, the whole society changes the transport-used habits will be unimaginable if 
there is lack of a heavily compulsory measure towards personal transports.  
Nevertheless, the ban on personal means of travel apparently violates the privacy and freedom as well as causes inconvenience to people’s travel. Obviously, the compulsory transportation will violate the privacy and freedom 
of a human which are basic needs of each human according to Maslow’s needs hierarchy, clearly regulates in the civil law of each nation. Furthermore, this infringement also results in the inconvenient travel. 
Although the government can plan very detailed transporting schedule for public transport system, they still not customize the schedule for each individual’s needs. Therefore, the conflict between the real 
needs of users and the travel schedule of the public means is apparently unavoidable.  
Generally, the compulsory towards personal transportation which may appear as a good measure to encourage the whole nation use the public transports, may infringe to the privacy and freedom rights of the people. 
Hence, instead of forcing people, the government should spend a relative budget to educate people about the detrimental effects of personal transports and improve the public transport system beforehand.
