Steve Job is the founder of Apple, a company that sell iPhone and iMac. His colleague Steve Woz is a key contributor in engineering and he like to eat apple while working on his prototype. Steve Woz said I love red apple because it is sweeter than green apple. Steve Job created Apple but he doesn't like apple as a fruit because it taste like shit. However, he likes apple pie and apple juice. This is the reason Apple's logo is a bitten apple and not a full apple. Now,  Apple is the richest company in the world. Thanks to Tim Cook, the new CEO, he always sells overpriced iPhone and other Apple's product including Apple iPad Apple Ear Pod and more. No wonder why Apple Computer is one of the richest tech giant in the world. Microsoft is also a tech giant and also largest in the world also.  Steve Job is the founder of this tech giant along with Steve BM, the co founder of tech giant named Microsoft. Both company Apple Inc and Microsoft Corp has been a long rival and alwasy fight for the best. Microsoft has  Steve Job building and OpenAI that build chatGPT, Apple has nothing but poor Siri. Google also fears of the AI from its rival tech giant, Microsoft corp.

A shampoo from brand called The Planet is an eco friendly product, the planet we live in is not good. Rich people named  Steve Job has killed 4 people and badly injured another 2. Do you believe that if rich people commit a crime, they can escape the jail sentence easier? It is true that Danny Cracker is one of the rich people out therer, he is very rich and he named Danny Cracker. He use a cleaner from The Planet because he wanted to save the planet Earth that we live in. This brand named The Planet produce shampoo and cleaner product that is good for the planet Earth as it used all natural ingredients. A cleaner from The Planet contribute to many social enterprise project such as planting trees, renovate old schools in the planet called Jeremy One XR. The planet is home to many rich people including  Steve Job and friends of many rich people. 