Q1. Reason you decided to release this album

This was planned since the beginning of the year and these are songs that all my fans know.

My fans know them whether as one phrase or as the whole song and have always requested for the songs to be released.

It has been 10 years since I kept a song like ‘Drama’ to myself without releasing it.

So at age 30, before I move on to my 30s, would this be considered as brushing off all my experimental songs from my 20s?

I have decided to release this album as a gift for the fans and a new beginning of my musical endeavours.





Q2. ‘Pieces’ Album Introduction



Pieces between my images that I continuously portrayed through my music and revealed publicly?

It was made of pieces that were not released nor bothered to be released and that was why it was named ‘Pieces’.





Q3. ‘Pieces’ Song Introduction



The initial songs are ‘Drama’ and ‘You’, which I wrote around the age of 20 and 24, respectively, and ‘Next Stop’ is a song that started at 25 and finished at 26.

‘Winter Sleep’ and ‘Love Letter’ were also in my late twenties, around 27~28. There are many songs that I would start and take up to a year to finish.

Take ‘Next Stop’ from my mid-20s and ‘Winter Sleep’ and ‘Love Letter’ from my late 20s as songs that I have never planned to release because as I said, they are experimental and thus, took a long time to finish too.





Q4. What was different from the previous album preparation process?



I was a little less pressured… because they have already been released to the fans little by little.

In fact, I usually feel so much pressure about ‘how will fans react to this song?’.

However, there wasn’t much uncertainty since ‘Pieces’ was solely composed with only the fans in mind and these songs are already well-liked by the fans.

I can’t help but be mindful of chart performance while making albums.

I can’t help but think about album sales or what kind of response it will get from music sites as a producer, but since this album was composed that way (with only the fans in mind) from the start, it was definitely different from other albums.

Q5. The meaning behind the tracklist order in Pieces’?



The tracklist order is decided under the presumption that people will listen to the album as a whole. The structure (introduction, development, turn and conclusion) of the album is decided with the feeling of ‘as a listener, I am listening to an entire book’, but first and foremost the beginning is really important.

Deciding what song to place as track no. 1 is an important point both strategy-wise and in terms of how I want to tell my story, but this way or that way, we started off with ‘Drama’ which many fans were waiting for the most.

The song itself has a really nice feel and I believe that it is the song that holds the theme of what I wanted to show through this album the most.

I had always shared with fans the story behind why this song was not being released for such a long time and with the thought that simply including ‘Drama’ alone would be meaningful enough for fans to have this album, I thought that it should be placed as the first track. Subsequently, track no. 2 would be the stories that would be most emphasized and the songs that I believe people would listen to the most would usually be placed as track no. 2 and no. 3. That’s why ‘Next Stop’ and ‘Winter Sleep’ were placed in that order, then the order of the following songs, ‘Love Letter’ and ‘You’, was decided more comfortably and that is the basis upon which the tracklist order of the album was decided.





Q6. How did the word ‘Pieces’ come about?



It was just an idea that came to me suddenly, but I thought, “Why don’t we just go with ‘소품집’ (Etudes - musical term for a small collection of pieces)?” However, this title felt a little too simple? It’s a commonly used expression, so ‘조각집’ (Pieces) came about as we were thinking “Isn’t there anything a little different?”. (T/L note: Inside the ‘Pieces’ documentary, the song introductions clipped inside is titled “IU’s 소품집” which is the original working title for this album.)

Of course, these songs are all very precious, hold good memories and are very dear to me, however, there were reasons why I couldn’t put them in official albums and so I thought instead of a complete picture, it felt more right to me that they were small pieces of that picture.

So when you put these pieces together, and gather these five songs together, it becomes a rather (complete) picture?

Meaning-wise, these songs are a bit different from the songs I would put on an album.

So I felt that if it was called ‘Pieces’ then what I wanted to say would become clearer, and that was how it was decided.



Q7. The reason why ‘Drama’ release was delayed



I don’t think there was an album that ‘Drama’ could fit in. I always tried to do so, but it was a song I made at the age of 20, kind of a song I made for fun and even compared to the other self-composed songs in this album, the emotions and vibe are a little different.

However, fans liked the song a lot and there were a lot of people who would request the song during en-encore at every concert. That is why even though I promised that I would release it someday, ultimately from the standpoint of a producer I would feel that putting this song into an album would be kind of forcing it too much, when considering the big picture I was trying to create and due to this reason, I would keep saying ‘next time, next time’ and the release eventually kept getting delayed.



Q8. Looking only at the lyrics of ‘Drama’ , I feel it would be believable if you said that the current IU at the brink of turning 30 wrote them.



I do think that is possible. The lyrics don’t quite have the vibe of a twenty year old.

The vibe of the song is like a children’s song, bright and sung cheerfully without too much technique. Although the vibe itself is like this, the lyrics show a bit more maturity. I borrowed the concept of a drama, but because I personally wrote the lyrics as if an old-aged actor were painting a picture, the content of the song does seem more fitting for a 30 year old than a 20 year old and yet even more so for a 40 year old than a 30 year old.

Q9. Your thoughts on singing ‘Drama’ as you wrapped up your twenties?



My voice was a bit different. Back then, I was actually younger; the concept of singing it like a children’s song was not awkward, and I remember singing it without that much effort. Of course, though I did sing this song at every concert as I got older year by year, because recordings and live performances are completely different fields, grasping the feeling to sing the song with detail and move forward with the directing was harder compared to the other songs. The thought that “I’ve reached the point where expressing the simplicity that only comes from the innocent-like times of the younger self now requires some thinking” made it a bit difficult, and because my voice itself has aged since then, I thought, “Is it a little awkward to sing it like a children’s song?” Though these may be my own thoughts… That’s why I sang less cheerfully compared to then.



Q10. The atmosphere during the recording was so nice



I often vibe with the atmosphere of the song I’m singing at the moment. When I sing a sad song, I tend to completely turn off the lights and focus quietly. When singing a fun song, I also tend to express (the song) by dancing and making myself feel good. Isn’t this the only bright song out of the five songs I participated in this time? I purposely did it more excitedly, and I actually felt a lot better.





Q11. You played the recorder (musical instrument) yourself



I was very satisfied with (how the sound turned out with) the recorder. (laughs)

“Ah~ If I learnt the recorder professionally, I could probably do it? I’m so satisfied with the sound?” I had such thoughts.





Q12. When you were recording ‘Next Stop,’ did you think of Jian as you sang?



I did not do that this time. Back then, I had thought about singing it that way if this theme, this song, actually were to be used in the drama, but as (those plans) unfortunately fell through, I thought about the 25, 26-year-old me at the time as I sang.

Of course, although there is also Jian in that piece, to say that this is only the theme of Jian is a bit different; it’s just my sentiments. From there, the song was concluded through Jian.



Q13. Your emotions back then when working on ‘Next Stop’

Actually, I can’t really remember clearly. Most of the songs on this album are like that. Since they are not songs that I wrote recently, but songs that I wrote as long as 10 years ago, I don’t recall exactly what kind of feelings I had when I wrote it, but for ‘Next Stop’, I remember that the melody probably came before the lyrics.

I think it was like “Ah!!”

Back then, I enjoyed taking the bus and travelling around alone.

I simply enjoyed taking the bus by myself to the Gwanghwamun area for a walk before returning home.

But I didn’t have a specific destination in mind when I boarded the bus back then.

I just felt stuffy and wanted to go for a walk, so I left my house, but it was like a tour without deciding in advance where I would be alighting.

As I thought to myself, “Where shall I alight? Where shall I alight?” I ended up not getting off the bus.

“Would there be a better destination that I prefer?”

“Rather than this place, would there be another place that suits me better?”

It’s a song that contains these emotions in a one-dimensional manner.

However, figuratively speaking, ‘Next Station’ is not just about a bus stop or train station, as it also refers to my feelings about my own life of ‘when will I get used to and accept the fact that right now where I am is where I should be in my life?’

I recall that the key to the lyrics is that I started writing upon receiving inspiration on a day when my twenty-five-year-old self took a bus and couldn’t decide where to alight.



Q14. What does ‘Next Station’ mean?



Destination, I guess? About what I should decide as my direction in life.

Actually, I think it’s not something that you come to realise with age, but that you keep thinking about over and over again. It’s a song about how lost and troubled I feel, because even though it’s been 4-5 years, I think I still haven’t decided on my destination and wonder about ‘the place I want to alight’, ‘the place I want to end up eventually’ and ‘the place I want to settle down in my life’.



Q15. Are you still as troubled as ever about where to alight?



That’s right. I’m not sure where that would be. I wonder, ‘Would I really find a clear answer to that in my lifetime?’

Q16. ‘Winter Sleep’ is an undisclosed song?



This is probably the song that fans have the least information about. As far as I can remember, I do recall singing a verse from the song when my fans asked me to sing one of my self-compositions on the spot at a fanmeeting after Hotel Del Luna ended in 2018. (T/L note: It should be IU’s 11th Debut Anniversary in 2019 instead.)

That was the first and last piece of information to them, but there was actually another hint for this song in an IU merchandise that came out this year (2021).

The first page (of the merch) reads, ‘a stalk of spring, a cup of summer, a page of autumn, a breath of winter.’ They would be using the diary (merch) throughout the year, so I thought this would be a crucial mediator between the people who received the diary and the year that they’d be spending. So I jotted down and revealed what the four seasons mean to me, and what a year means to me through the merchandise, and that was the hint for ‘Winter Sleep’ and the expressions used in the lyrics.

But fortunately, (my fans) liked it a lot, though they obviously wouldn’t be able to link it to ‘Winter Sleep’…

Perhaps they will find out when the song is released?





Q17. Introducing the song ‘Winter Sleep’



When I first started writing, the song was about death. And it still was when I finished.



At that time, I wanted to depict myself not being able to accept that someone precious to me passed away, that they were gone from this world – I wanted to describe myself trying hard to remember them, imagining as if they were by my side.



In that one year after their death – the spring, summer, autumn, winter… As if I were telling a story to this friend, the one who passed…



“You can’t see them, but I’ve left in front of your room a bouquet of spring that hasn’t bloomed yet, a cup of summer that I’ve poured, a page of autumn that I’ve torn out, and a breath of winter infused with my true desire to see you.” It could be seen as me rambling endlessly about how much I miss them, yet sending them a message, “I’m okay,” and it could also be a story letting them know, “I miss you.”



It’s not about someone’s absence, that someone is no longer here - it’s more like what someone would feel if their pet crossed the Rainbow Bridge.



And I wrote with the thought, “Wouldn’t the family and friends of the deceased, who left so abruptly, accept their death in this way?”



They could be sad endlessly and be completely broken (by their death), but the song is imbued with the idea, “I’ve lived the 1 year, the 12 months, without you…with you.” as I thought, “Isn’t it possible for them to spend (the one year after the death) like that?”